One of the key features of Python is that the core language that we've been learning up until now is
pretty small.
As a matter of fact we've pretty much covered most of Python now.
Python was created in this small tiny package as a feature to keep things simple although you may feel
like you've learned a lot at the end of the day.
It shouldn't have been that bad because there's not a lot of things to memorize.
We also learned how to organize our code so that we have multiple Python files but the reason python
is so popular and it's used in all sorts of industries from big tech companies like Google and Netflix
to Amazon to small projects and people like us who just maybe are single developers building tiny projects.
Python is extremely useful through what we call external modules and packages that is outside of what
we get from Python.
Well we have an entire package system where we can borrow and expand on the Python functionality and
these are called Python's built in modules.
Let me show you what I mean.
If you go to the Python documentation they have the python module index that I'll link to.
And here we have all the modules that Python give us.
Now these modules actually were installed when we downloaded the Python interpreter.
It comes with Python but in order for us to use them we have to import them.
These are the built in modules and they're really really nice.
For example do you want to send.
I don't know.
An email.
Well there's an email module maybe you want to really do some mathematical operations that are complex
while there's a math module for that and there's a module for a lot of things.
Now don't get scared.
This looks like a lot but you're not supposed to memorize any of these.
You just need to know that they exist so that when you're Googling something you can type in Python
built in module and let's say for example you want to build a game say Python built a module game or
graphical user interface and check if the module exists.
I have to say I've probably only used 30 percent of these but they're there for us to gain extra powers
in other languages.
This might be called a standard library.
That is it's a standard library maintained by the Python community members and making sure that these
packages work really really well with Python and that they're built into the language.
So let's learn how to use them and use one of my favorite ones which is called random.
So let's see here if we can find it are random generate pseudo random numbers with various common distributions
and you can read all about it here.
It's a long read.
So let me just show you now the beauty is that we've actually installed this whenever you install Python
on your machine you get access to all the built in module.
The standard library.
So all I have to do is say import random.
And now I have access to random if I run this let's clock run look at that module random from library
frameworks python you see that it's inversions three point seven library python and random dot PI.
This is actually installed on my machine and it should be installed on yours as well.
If you followed along and installed the python library now where is this where you can actually see
it in our picture.
If you go to external libraries here and you open this up you see here that I have the python three
point seven modules and if I scroll down and you go to Python three point seven or whatever your installation
was and scroll all the way down to let's say Ah where is it.
Where is it as you can see there's a lot
here it is random dot PI.
This is installed on our hand sheet.
And if I double click this Google that I have the random variable generator.
And this is the file that allows us to use random and you can see over here that random is a class that
is going to allow us to well use all this functionality and look at that.
It even has this little line that I told you about in the previous video only run this test function.
If this is the main fault run this is probably something that the maintainers of this module whoever
coded this added to say Hey don't run this for anybody else but if for example we're working on this
and we want to run the test function to test that all of these things are working then run that.
But in our case when we use random as users or consumers of module This is never going to run very very
cool.
Now you can see here how many
modules we have and we even have some packages like the e mail package with well a whole ton of things.
So this is already existing in our computer and that's why we have access to import random so let's
learn more about random now.
What I'd like to do usually when I'm importing a library and I don't know what it does is to actually
use the help function that comes with Python.
If I run this you'll see here that I'll get a help message with well all the information and documentation
of what it does.
So it gives you some description.
If you scroll down it shows you some of the code and some of the methods that perhaps we get which is
really really nice.
Let's lower that down.
Another thing that I like to do after perhaps I read the documentation is to do the dir function and
if I click Run and let's actually print that if I click Run.
Here we go.
It shows me all the methods available on this package so I can see all right.
All these things that I have I have ran range sample see that I can use if you're using an idea like
pie chart.
I could just do dot and actually see all these methods as well which is really really nice.
All right let's have some fun with this random module random has randomly a random method so random
dot random is going to give us well let's print it out and find out it's going to give us a random number
between 0 and 1.
As you can see here.
So this is really useful.
Another thing it does is it gives you a Rand int which is a random integer and we can give it the first
parameter where it should start and where it should end.
If I run this look at that I get 4 than 1 then 6 and 2 just a random integer.
Every time between the start and the finish another useful one with random is something called choice.
And here inside of the choice we give it let's say a choice to make for example a list.
One two three four.
Or you know what let's do four or five.
If I click Run It just makes the choice picks one from the iterator list that we have which is really
rather nice just random choices.
So why is this useful.
Well maybe you want to build.
I don't know a roulette game or a game where you need a random generator between let's say number one
to 10.
So this is a nice way to just do that without coding it yourself.
Another one that I like is called shuffle and shuffle.
If I click run here I'm probably using it the wrong way.
So how can I find out more about this.
Well this idea allows us to actually select and do view quick documentation which you can see as f 1.
In my case it might be different based on your machine so I can just say f 1 and look at that.
Well I see that shuffle has the sequence X in place.
That is a modifies whatever list we're giving it in place so it returns None.
So what we need to do is let's say my list that will be 1 2 THREE.
Let's add a few more.
Give my list in here.
And instead of printing that after we'd shuffle things we'll say my list and then just print this.
If I click Run now.
There you go.
I've shuffled my list in place.
Very very cool.
Now another import thing that I haven't shown yet.
And you don't see it as often is to actually do something like this.
I can say from random import.
Shuffle or I can actually do an alias so I can say import random as and then give it an alias that is
whatever we want to call it in this file.
So let's say you la la.
So in that case random becomes Who.
La la.
So you can actually avoid name collisions if you want.
So if I click Run this should still work.
But again a good practice for me personally is to always import only what you need.
In our case we want to import from random just the shuffle.
So I'm going to say shuffle because I'm being explicit here.
And when a developer comes and sees that I'm importing shuffle from random they know that I'm only using
this function from the random file and there's no guessing involved just like this let's learn some
other built in modules in the next video.